Update and standardize the documentation on how to commit to Presto (#21988)
prestodb/presto: CONTRIBUTING.md

Thanks for your interest in Presto.  Our goal is to build a fast, scalable and reliable distributed SQL query engine for running low latency interactive and batch analytic queries against data sources of all sizes ranging from gigabytes to petabytes.

### Purpose of This Document
Across commit messages, pull requests, and GitHub issues, there should be a readable, self explanatory history legible by users and developers who do not have a deep knowledge of the changes.  Change logs should be easy to generate from these sources.

> By having agreed upon community standards, and ensuring they are communicated clearly and explicitly, we can accelerate implementation and community growth.

Author: I think actually, we don't need these first two introductory paragraphs at all.  What do you think?

> By having agreed upon community standards, and ensuring they are communicated clearly and explicitly, we can accelerate implementation and community growth.

Reviewer: > I think actually, we don't need these first two introductory paragraphs at all. What do you think?

I like the sentence "Across commit messages, pull requests, and GitHub issues, there should be a readable, self explanatory history legible by users and developers who do not have a deep knowledge of the changes.", but while I think that's a good goal, I also think that's not necessarily a great description of the "Purpose of _this_ Document". The sentence could go into another file such as the Presto Development Guidelines, maybe, if we really want to keep it. 

For CONTRIBUTING.md, I'm fine with deleting lines 5-8.

> By having agreed upon community standards, and ensuring they are communicated clearly and explicitly, we can accelerate implementation and community growth.

Author: Yes, agreed

                            !(isIndexColumn && field.isPresent()),
                            "Field info for row index column must be empty Optional"));
        }
      ```

* **Ordering of class members and methods**
    * Class members are in front of methods.
    * Group and order the class members and methods in the order of their access levels in descending order:
        1. public
        1. protected
        1. package private
        1. private
    * Group and order the class members in descending order:
        1. static final
        1. final
        1. normal
    * Order the methods with the same access level in the order they’re called.
* **Encourage proper encapsulation**
    * Do not use public class members. Use lower access levels as much as possible. Exceptions may apply for performance critical paths, in that case discuss your design first with relevant code owners.
    * Make a function access level as low as possible
    * If a public class is only used by one caller and the usage is local, consider making it a nested class.
* **Immutable and thread safe classes**
    * Whenever possible, class fields should be final

>     * When it's not possible, ensure that accesses to the non-final fields are thread safe by whatever methods are appropriate for the circumstance (Concurrent collections, synchronized access, etc.) if they are in a code path that is multi-threaded

Reviewer 2: Should it be "When it's possible"?

Author: I think it's in the context of the bullet above.  When it's not possible for something to be final, we should protect writes to the field.

Reviewer 2: Oh I see

* [Sign the Presto CLA](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributor-license-agreement-cla)
* [Join the Presto Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/prestodb/prestodb)
* [File an issue](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/issues/new/choose)
* Self verify new code matches [codestyle](https://github.com/airlift/codestyle) for Presto
* Follow commit standards
* Add or modify existing tests related to code changes being submitted
* Run and ensure that local tests pass before submitting a merge request

## Designing Your Code
* Consider your code through 3 axes
    1. Code Quality and Maintainability, for example:
        1. Code Style
           * Does the code in this PR follow existing coding conventions as outlined in this doc and elsewhere in the code?
        1. Maintainability
           * Is the feature added in a hacky way? If we did everything this way, would the
             code base become hard to use?
           * Is the feature implemented in a clean way with appropriate interfaces that fits
             in with the rest of Presto's design and keeps our code base maintainable?

>     1. Code Safety, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Code Safety
```

        1. Adequate testing
        1. Feature flags to enable or disable features that might be risky
        1. Thread safe
        1. No data structures that can grow without bounds; Memory usage is accounted for
        1. Not introducing expensive calls in a performance sensitive area

>     1. User friendliness, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. User friendliness
```

             .collect(Collectors.toList())
  ```
    
  * Use ```toImmutableList()```
    
  ```java
  import com.google.common.collect.ImmutableList;
  ...
  import static com.google.common.collect.ImmutableList.toImmutableList;
  ...
  expressions.stream()
             .map(OriginalExpressionUtils::castToExpression)
             .collect(toImmutableList())
  ```

* **Method argument validation**
    * Usually needed for constructors

      ```java
      protected SqlScalarFunction(Signature signature)
      {
          this.signature = requireNonNull(signature, "signature is null");
          checkArgument(signature.getKind() == SCALAR, "function kind must be SCALAR");
      }
      ```

* **Use proper annotations**
    * @Nullable
    * @VisibleForTesting
    * @Override
    * @Experimental
* **Use of Optional instead of bare metal nullable objects when appropriate**
    * public method parameters
    * Performance NON-CRITICAL path
    * Creating Optional objects is not free. If the function call is in a critical loop, do NOT use Optional parameters.
* **Alphabetize**
    * Sections in documentation
    * Methods
    * Variables
    * Sections
* **Comment styles**

>     * Recommend to add the “/** */” (Javadoc) style comments to all interface methods, with explanation of the parameters and returns. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Add the “/** */” (Javadoc) style comments to all interface methods, with explanation of the parameters and returns. For example:
```
Suggestion as shorter, and also change to imperative mode as a more visible call to action for the user. "Add" is stronger than "Recommend to add", but when would it be bad for the user to add Javadoc style comments to an interface method?

      ```java
          interface Transformation<T, R>
          {
              /**
               * Processes input elements and returns current transformation state.
               *
               * @param elementOptional an element to be transformed. Will be empty
               * when there are no more elements. In such case transformation should
               * finish processing and flush any remaining data.
               * @return the current transformation state, optionally bearing a result
               * @see TransformationState#needsMoreData()
               * @see TransformationState#blocked(ListenableFuture)
               * @see TransformationState#yield()
               * @see TransformationState#ofResult(Object)
               * @see TransformationState#ofResult(Object, boolean)
               * @see TransformationState#finished()
               */
              TransformationState<R> process(Optional<T> elementOptional);
          }
      ```

>     * Recommend to add the “/** */” style comments to important or difficult public methods, with explanation of the parameters and returns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Add the “/** */” style comments to important or difficult public methods, with explanation of the parameters and returns.
```
Same as above: if there's a good objection to the previous similar comment, it'll probably also be relevant here.

    * Within the method body, use “//” style comments on separate lines for difficult parts.
    * Use “//” style comments for class members if it can help understanding the code. Can be on the same line or separate lines in front.
* **Code succinctness**
    * Inline function calls when appropriate. For example, if a function is only called once, we don’t need to create a variable for it.

>     * Lambda
>       For example, instead of doing this

Reviewer 3: This is showing up as one line in formatting. Maybe to keep it more consistent with the imperative

```suggestion
    * Use reference operator in lambda expressions where possible. For example, instead of doing this:
```

* #### Backport PR
    * Must refer to the original PR and provide link in the PR message.
    * Must refer to original authors in the PR message.
    * Do NOT change titles or messages of the original commits.
    * If the original PR contains multiple commits, follow the same structure.

## Pull Request Checklist

If you are not an official committer, you must fork from Master and then submit a Pull Request to contribute as an individual.

To make a contribution:

We use the [Fork and Pull model](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/about-collaborative-development-models#fork-and-pull-model)
- Fork from the master branch
- If needed, rebase to the current master
  branch before submitting your pull request
- If it doesn't merge cleanly with
  master you may be asked to rebase your changes.
- If your pull request does not have a reviewer assigned to it after 4 days, [ask for a review in the #dev channel in Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/prestodb/shared_invite/enQtNTQ3NjU2MTYyNDA2LTYyOTg3MzUyMWE1YTI3Njc5YjgxZjNiYTgxODAzYjI5YWMwYWE0MTZjYWFhNGMwNjczYjI3N2JhM2ExMGJlMWM).

- Tests are expected for all bug fixes and new features.

> - Make sure your code follows the [code style guidelines](https://github.com/prestodb/presto#code-style), [development guidelines](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Presto-Development-Guidelines#development) & [formatting guidelines](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Presto-Development-Guidelines#formatting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure your code follows the [code style guidelines](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-style), [development guidelines](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Presto-Development-Guidelines#development) and [formatting guidelines](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Presto-Development-Guidelines#formatting)
```
* The link to code style guidelines https://github.com/prestodb/presto#code-style doesn't seem to be correct, so suggest changing it back to https://github.com/prestodb/presto/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-style. If I'm missing something here, let me know! 

* Do not use Latin abbreviations. See [GitLab style guide recommended word list entry for &](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/development/documentation/styleguide/word_list.html#).

Presto welcomes contributions from everyone.

Contributions to Presto should be made in the form of GitHub pull request submissions and reviews.

> Each pull request submission must be reviewed by a contributor or committer in the project.  For a PR to be eligible to be merged, a committer for the appropriate code must approve the code. Once approved by a committer, the PR may be merged by anyone.

Author: "For a PR to be eligible to be merged, a committer for the appropriate code must review and approve the code."

> Each pull request submission must be reviewed by a contributor or committer in the project.  For a PR to be eligible to be merged, a committer for the appropriate code must approve the code. Once approved by a committer, the PR may be merged by anyone.

Reviewer: > "For a PR to be eligible to be merged, a committer for the appropriate code must review and approve the code."

Nice, I like it!

* Medium size changes should have an issue. Work from RFCs may be broken down into smaller issues, which themselves link to the RFC.
* Smaller changes, such as minor bug fixes and code formatting, may forego an issue and just submit a PR.

## Minimum Expectations for Contributing to Presto
To commit code, you should:
* Work through the [Getting Started](https://prestodb.io/getting-started/) materials
* [Read and agree to the Code of Conduct](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
* [Sign the Presto CLA](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributor-license-agreement-cla)
* [Join Presto Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/prestodb/prestodb)
* [File an issue](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/issues/new/choose)
* Self verify new code matches [codestyle](https://github.com/airlift/codestyle) for Presto
* Follow commit standards
* Add or modify existing tests related to code changes being submitted
* Run and ensure local tests pass before submitting a merge request

## Designing Your Code
* Consider your code through 3 axes
    1. Code Quality/Maintainability, for example:

>         1. Code Style

Author: `1. Code Style - does the code in this PR follow existing coding conventions as outlined in this doc and elsewhere in the code?`. WDYT?

        2. Maintainability - is the feature added in a hacky way (if we did everything that way would the code base become hard to use), or is it implemented in a clean way with appropriate interfaces, fits in with the rest of Presto's design etc. (so keeps our code base maintainable).
    1. Code Safety, for example:
        1. Adequate testing
        1. Feature flags to enable/disable features that might be risky
        1. Thread safe
        1. No data structures that can grow without bounds; Memory usage is accounted for
        1. Not introducing expensive calls in a performance sensitive area
    1. User friendliness, for example:

>         1. Config options have names and descriptions that can be understood by someone configuring Presto

Author: I think linking below to the release notes guidelines seems sufficient, but let me know if you disagree!

>         1. Config options have names and descriptions that can be understood by someone configuring Presto

Reviewer: > I think linking below to the release notes guidelines seems sufficient, but let me know if you disagree!

This was a very soft suggestion, so I'm fine with no change here.

## Pull Requests
* #### PR size and structure
    * A PR can consist of multiple small commits, preferably not exceeding 20.
    * The total number of lines modified in a single PR shall not exceeding 5000, except for changes that include checked in code generated files (such as [presto_protocol.cpp](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/blob/master/presto-native-execution/presto_cpp/presto_protocol/presto_protocol.cpp)).
    * The commits sequence shall be in the dependencies order, not in date created/modified order
    * Every commit in the PR shall pass all the tests
      Example: https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/12991/commits

* #### Follow the PR template provided
* #### Backport PR
    * Must refer to the original PR and provide link in the PR message
    * Must refer to original authors in the PR message
    * Do NOT change original commits titles or messages.

>     * If original PR contains multiple commits, follow the same structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * If the original PR contains multiple commits, follow the same structure.
```

## Pull Request Checklist

If you are not an official committer, you must fork from Master and then submit a Pull Request to contribute as an individual.

> If you want to make a contribution:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make a contribution:
```

        * Use the imperative mood in the subject line
        * Wrap the body at 72 characters
        * Use the body to explain what and why vs. how
    * Ensure all code is peer reviewed within your own organization or peers before submitting
    * Implement and address existing feedback before requesting further review
    * Make a good faith effort to locate example or referential code before requesting someone else direct you towards it
    * If you see a lack of documentation, create a separate commit with draft documentation to fill the gap
        * This documentation can be iterated on same as any code commit, demonstrate in real time that you are learning the code section
    * Implement or modify relevant tests, otherwise provide clear explanation why test updates were not necessary
    * Tag your PR with affected code areas as best as you can, it’s okay to tag too many, better to cut down irrelevant tags than miss getting input from relevant subject matter experts

- Example PR message

>     - please refer [here](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/blob/master/pull_request_template.md)

Reviewer 3: I feel like we could potentially remove this? It's said earlier that you should follow the PR template guidelines

### What not to do for Pull Requests
* Submit before getting peer review in your own organization
* Request review without addressing or implementing previous feedback

> * Asking reviewers to provide examples or code references instead of finding them on your own

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ask reviewers to provide examples or code references without trying to find them on your own
```

> * Protesting lack of documentation for a code section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Protest lack of documentation for a code section
```

    * Instead, review the related code, then draft initial documentation as a separate commit
* Submit without test cases or clear justification for lack thereof

## Code Reviews
#### What to do
* Provide explicit feedback on what is needed or what would be better
* Review code with the objective of helping someone land their changes
#### What not to do
* Treat reviews as purely a hunt for mistakes

## Conduct

Please refer to our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Contributor License Agreement ("CLA")

> In order to accept your pull request, we need you to submit a CLA. You only need to do this once, so if you've done this for one repository in the [prestodb](https://github.com/prestodb) organization, you're good to go. If you are submitting a pull request for the first time, the communitybridge-easycla bot will notify you if you haven't signed, and will provide you with a link.  If you are contributing on behalf of a company, you might want to let the person who manages your corporate CLA whitelist know they will be receiving a request from you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accept your pull request, you must submit a CLA. You only need to do this once, so if you've done this for one repository in the [prestodb](https://github.com/prestodb) organization, you're good to go. When you submit a pull request for the first time, the communitybridge-easycla bot notifies you if you haven't signed, and provides you with a link.  If you are contributing on behalf of a company, you might want to let the person who manages your corporate CLA whitelist know they will be receiving a request from you.
```
